README.md, before:

![nginx 1.9.2](https://img.shields.io/badge/nginx-1.9.2-brightgreen.svg) ![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)

nginx-proxy sets up a container running nginx and [docker-gen][1].  docker-gen generates reverse proxy configs for nginx and reloads nginx when containers are started and stopped.

See [Automated Nginx Reverse Proxy for Docker][2] for why you might want to use this.

### Usage

To run it:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

Then start any containers you want proxied with an env var `VIRTUAL_HOST=subdomain.youdomain.com`

    $ docker run -e VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com  ...

Provided your DNS is setup to forward foo.bar.com to the a host running nginx-proxy, the request will be routed to a container with the VIRTUAL_HOST env var set.

If you are using `boot2docker` start `nginx-proxy` with:

    $ $(boot2docker shellinit)
    $ docker run -p 80:80 -e DOCKER_HOST -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY -v $DOCKER_CERT_PATH:$DOCKER_CERT_PATH -it jwilder/nginx-proxy

### Multiple Ports

If your container exposes multiple ports, nginx-proxy will default to the service running on port 80.  If you need to specify a different port, you can set a VIRTUAL_PORT env var to select a different one.  If your container only exposes one port and it has a VIRTUAL_HOST env var set, that port will be selected.

  [1]: https://github.com/jwilder/docker-gen
  [2]: http://jasonwilder.com/blog/2014/03/25/automated-nginx-reverse-proxy-for-docker/

### Multiple Hosts

If you need to support multiple virtual hosts for a container, you can separate each entry with commas.  For example, `foo.bar.com,baz.bar.com,bar.com` and each host will be setup the same.

### Wildcard Hosts

You can also use wildcards at the beginning and the end of host name, like `*.bar.com` or `foo.bar.*`. Or even a regular expression, which can be very useful in conjunction with a wildcard DNS service like [xip.io](http://xip.io), using `~^foo\.bar\..*\.xip\.io` will match `foo.bar.127.0.0.1.xip.io`, `foo.bar.10.0.2.2.xip.io` and all other given IPs. More information about this topic can be found in the nginx documentation about [`server_names`](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/server_names.html).

### SSL Backends

If you would like to connect to your backend using HTTPS instead of HTTP, set `VIRTUAL_PROTO=https` on the backend container.

### Default Host

To set the default host for nginx use the env var `DEFAULT_HOST=foo.bar.com` for example

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -e DEFAULT_HOST=foo.bar.com -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy


### Separate Containers

nginx-proxy can also be run as two separate containers using the [jwilder/docker-gen](https://index.docker.io/u/jwilder/docker-gen/)
image and the official [nginx](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/nginx/) image.

You may want to do this to prevent having the docker socket bound to a publicly exposed container service.

To run nginx proxy as a separate container you'll need to have [nginx.tmpl](https://github.com/jwilder/nginx-proxy/blob/master/nginx.tmpl) on your host system.

First start nginx with a volume:


    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 --name nginx -v /tmp/nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d -t nginx

Then start the docker-gen container with the shared volume and template:

```
$ docker run --volumes-from nginx \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro \
    -v $(pwd):/etc/docker-gen/templates \
    -t jwilder/docker-gen -notify-sighup nginx -watch -only-exposed /etc/docker-gen/templates/nginx.tmpl /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
```

Finally, start your containers with `VIRTUAL_HOST` environment variables.

    $ docker run -e VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com  ...

### SSL Support

SSL is supported using single host, wildcard and SNI certificates using naming conventions for
certificates or optionally specifying a cert name (for SNI) as an environment variable.

To enable SSL:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/certs:/etc/nginx/certs -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

The contents of `/path/to/certs` should contain the certificates and private keys for any virtual
hosts in use.  The certificate and keys should be named after the virtual host with a `.crt` and
`.key` extension.  For example, a container with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com` should have a
`foo.bar.com.crt` and `foo.bar.com.key` file in the certs directory.

#### Diffie-Hellman Groups

If you have Diffie-Hellman groups enabled, the files should be named after the virtual host with a
`dhparam` suffix and `.pem` extension. For example, a container with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com`
should have a `foo.bar.com.dhparam.pem` file in the certs directory.

#### Wildcard Certificates

Wildcard certificates and keys should be name after the domain name with a `.crt` and `.key` extension.
For example `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com` would use cert name `bar.com.crt` and `bar.com.key`.

#### SNI

If your certificate(s) supports multiple domain names, you can start a container with `CERT_NAME=<name>`
to identify the certificate to be used.  For example, a certificate for `*.foo.com` and `*.bar.com`
could be named `shared.crt` and `shared.key`.  A container running with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com`
and `CERT_NAME=shared` will then use this shared cert.

#### How SSL Support Works

The SSL cipher configuration is based on [mozilla nginx intermediate profile](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Nginx) which
should provide compatibility with clients back to Firefox 1, Chrome 1, IE 7, Opera 5, Safari 1,
Windows XP IE8, Android 2.3, Java 7.  The configuration also enables HSTS, and SSL
session caches.

The behavior for the proxy when port 80 and 443 are exposed is as follows:

* If a container has a usable cert, port 80 will redirect to 443 for that container so that HTTPS
is always preferred when available.
* If the container does not have a usable cert, a 503 will be returned.

Note that in the latter case, a browser may get an connection error as no certificate is available
to establish a connection.  A self-signed or generic cert named `default.crt` and `default.key`
will allow a client browser to make a SSL connection (likely w/ a warning) and subsequently receive
a 503.

### Basic Authentication Support

In order to be able to secure your virtual host, you have to create a file named as its equivalent VIRTUAL_HOST variable on directory
/etc/nginx/htpasswd/$VIRTUAL_HOST

```
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 \
    -v /path/to/htpasswd:/etc/nginx/htpasswd \
    -v /path/to/certs:/etc/nginx/certs \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro \
    jwilder/nginx-proxy
```

You'll need apache2-utils on the machine where you plan to create the htpasswd file. Follow these [instructions](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/programs/htpasswd.html)

### Custom Nginx Configuration

If you need to configure Nginx beyond what is possible using environment variables, you can provide custom configuration files on either a proxy-wide or per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` basis.

#### Proxy-wide

To add settings on a proxy-wide basis, add your configuration file under `/etc/nginx/conf.d` using a name ending in `.conf`.

This can be done in a derived image by creating the file in a `RUN` command or by `COPY`ing the file into `conf.d`:

```Dockerfile
FROM jwilder/nginx-proxy
RUN { \
      echo 'server_tokens off;'; \
      echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; \
    } > /etc/nginx/conf.d/my_proxy.conf
```

Or it can be done by mounting in your custom configuration in your `docker run` command:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/my_proxy.conf:/etc/nginx/conf.d/my_proxy.conf:ro -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

#### Per-VIRTUAL_HOST

To add settings on a per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` basis, add your configuration file under `/etc/nginx/vhost.d`. Unlike in the proxy-wide case, which allows multiple config files with any name ending in `.conf`, the per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` file must be named exactly after the `VIRTUAL_HOST`.

In order to allow virtual hosts to be dynamically configured as backends are added and removed, it makes the most sense to mount an external directory as `/etc/nginx/vhost.d` as opposed to using derived images or mounting individual configuration files.

For example, if you have a virtual host named `app.example.com`, you could provide a custom configuration for that host as follows:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/vhost.d:/etc/nginx/vhost.d:ro -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy
    $ { echo 'server_tokens off;'; echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; } > /path/to/vhost.d/app.example.com

If you are using multiple hostnames for a single container (e.g. `VIRTUAL_HOST=example.com,www.example.com`), the virtual host configuration file must exist for each hostname. If you would like to use the same configuration for multiple virtual host names, you can use a symlink:

    $ { echo 'server_tokens off;'; echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; } > /path/to/vhost.d/www.example.com
    $ ln -s www.example.com /path/to/vhost.d/example.com

Commit message:

Document the need to EXPOSE the proxied port

README.md, after:

![nginx 1.9.2](https://img.shields.io/badge/nginx-1.9.2-brightgreen.svg) ![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)

nginx-proxy sets up a container running nginx and [docker-gen][1].  docker-gen generates reverse proxy configs for nginx and reloads nginx when containers are started and stopped.

See [Automated Nginx Reverse Proxy for Docker][2] for why you might want to use this.

### Usage

To run it:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

Then start any containers you want proxied with an env var `VIRTUAL_HOST=subdomain.youdomain.com`

    $ docker run -e VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com  ...

The containers being proxied must [expose](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/#expose-incoming-ports) the port to be proxied, either by using the `EXPOSE` directive in their `Dockerfile` or by using the `--expose` flag to `docker run` or `docker create`.

Provided your DNS is setup to forward foo.bar.com to the a host running nginx-proxy, the request will be routed to a container with the VIRTUAL_HOST env var set.

If you are using `boot2docker` start `nginx-proxy` with:

    $ $(boot2docker shellinit)
    $ docker run -p 80:80 -e DOCKER_HOST -e DOCKER_CERT_PATH -e DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY -v $DOCKER_CERT_PATH:$DOCKER_CERT_PATH -it jwilder/nginx-proxy

### Multiple Ports

If your container exposes multiple ports, nginx-proxy will default to the service running on port 80.  If you need to specify a different port, you can set a VIRTUAL_PORT env var to select a different one.  If your container only exposes one port and it has a VIRTUAL_HOST env var set, that port will be selected.

  [1]: https://github.com/jwilder/docker-gen
  [2]: http://jasonwilder.com/blog/2014/03/25/automated-nginx-reverse-proxy-for-docker/

### Multiple Hosts

If you need to support multiple virtual hosts for a container, you can separate each entry with commas.  For example, `foo.bar.com,baz.bar.com,bar.com` and each host will be setup the same.

### Wildcard Hosts

You can also use wildcards at the beginning and the end of host name, like `*.bar.com` or `foo.bar.*`. Or even a regular expression, which can be very useful in conjunction with a wildcard DNS service like [xip.io](http://xip.io), using `~^foo\.bar\..*\.xip\.io` will match `foo.bar.127.0.0.1.xip.io`, `foo.bar.10.0.2.2.xip.io` and all other given IPs. More information about this topic can be found in the nginx documentation about [`server_names`](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/server_names.html).

### SSL Backends

If you would like to connect to your backend using HTTPS instead of HTTP, set `VIRTUAL_PROTO=https` on the backend container.

### Default Host

To set the default host for nginx use the env var `DEFAULT_HOST=foo.bar.com` for example

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -e DEFAULT_HOST=foo.bar.com -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy


### Separate Containers

nginx-proxy can also be run as two separate containers using the [jwilder/docker-gen](https://index.docker.io/u/jwilder/docker-gen/)
image and the official [nginx](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/nginx/) image.

You may want to do this to prevent having the docker socket bound to a publicly exposed container service.

To run nginx proxy as a separate container you'll need to have [nginx.tmpl](https://github.com/jwilder/nginx-proxy/blob/master/nginx.tmpl) on your host system.

First start nginx with a volume:


    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 --name nginx -v /tmp/nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d -t nginx

Then start the docker-gen container with the shared volume and template:

```
$ docker run --volumes-from nginx \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro \
    -v $(pwd):/etc/docker-gen/templates \
    -t jwilder/docker-gen -notify-sighup nginx -watch -only-exposed /etc/docker-gen/templates/nginx.tmpl /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
```

Finally, start your containers with `VIRTUAL_HOST` environment variables.

    $ docker run -e VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com  ...

### SSL Support

SSL is supported using single host, wildcard and SNI certificates using naming conventions for
certificates or optionally specifying a cert name (for SNI) as an environment variable.

To enable SSL:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/certs:/etc/nginx/certs -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

The contents of `/path/to/certs` should contain the certificates and private keys for any virtual
hosts in use.  The certificate and keys should be named after the virtual host with a `.crt` and
`.key` extension.  For example, a container with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com` should have a
`foo.bar.com.crt` and `foo.bar.com.key` file in the certs directory.

#### Diffie-Hellman Groups

If you have Diffie-Hellman groups enabled, the files should be named after the virtual host with a
`dhparam` suffix and `.pem` extension. For example, a container with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com`
should have a `foo.bar.com.dhparam.pem` file in the certs directory.

#### Wildcard Certificates

Wildcard certificates and keys should be name after the domain name with a `.crt` and `.key` extension.
For example `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com` would use cert name `bar.com.crt` and `bar.com.key`.

#### SNI

If your certificate(s) supports multiple domain names, you can start a container with `CERT_NAME=<name>`
to identify the certificate to be used.  For example, a certificate for `*.foo.com` and `*.bar.com`
could be named `shared.crt` and `shared.key`.  A container running with `VIRTUAL_HOST=foo.bar.com`
and `CERT_NAME=shared` will then use this shared cert.

#### How SSL Support Works

The SSL cipher configuration is based on [mozilla nginx intermediate profile](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Nginx) which
should provide compatibility with clients back to Firefox 1, Chrome 1, IE 7, Opera 5, Safari 1,
Windows XP IE8, Android 2.3, Java 7.  The configuration also enables HSTS, and SSL
session caches.

The behavior for the proxy when port 80 and 443 are exposed is as follows:

* If a container has a usable cert, port 80 will redirect to 443 for that container so that HTTPS
is always preferred when available.
* If the container does not have a usable cert, a 503 will be returned.

Note that in the latter case, a browser may get an connection error as no certificate is available
to establish a connection.  A self-signed or generic cert named `default.crt` and `default.key`
will allow a client browser to make a SSL connection (likely w/ a warning) and subsequently receive
a 503.

### Basic Authentication Support

In order to be able to secure your virtual host, you have to create a file named as its equivalent VIRTUAL_HOST variable on directory
/etc/nginx/htpasswd/$VIRTUAL_HOST

```
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 \
    -v /path/to/htpasswd:/etc/nginx/htpasswd \
    -v /path/to/certs:/etc/nginx/certs \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro \
    jwilder/nginx-proxy
```

You'll need apache2-utils on the machine where you plan to create the htpasswd file. Follow these [instructions](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/programs/htpasswd.html)

### Custom Nginx Configuration

If you need to configure Nginx beyond what is possible using environment variables, you can provide custom configuration files on either a proxy-wide or per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` basis.

#### Proxy-wide

To add settings on a proxy-wide basis, add your configuration file under `/etc/nginx/conf.d` using a name ending in `.conf`.

This can be done in a derived image by creating the file in a `RUN` command or by `COPY`ing the file into `conf.d`:

```Dockerfile
FROM jwilder/nginx-proxy
RUN { \
      echo 'server_tokens off;'; \
      echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; \
    } > /etc/nginx/conf.d/my_proxy.conf
```

Or it can be done by mounting in your custom configuration in your `docker run` command:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/my_proxy.conf:/etc/nginx/conf.d/my_proxy.conf:ro -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy

#### Per-VIRTUAL_HOST

To add settings on a per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` basis, add your configuration file under `/etc/nginx/vhost.d`. Unlike in the proxy-wide case, which allows multiple config files with any name ending in `.conf`, the per-`VIRTUAL_HOST` file must be named exactly after the `VIRTUAL_HOST`.

In order to allow virtual hosts to be dynamically configured as backends are added and removed, it makes the most sense to mount an external directory as `/etc/nginx/vhost.d` as opposed to using derived images or mounting individual configuration files.

For example, if you have a virtual host named `app.example.com`, you could provide a custom configuration for that host as follows:

    $ docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -v /path/to/vhost.d:/etc/nginx/vhost.d:ro -v /var/run/docker.sock:/tmp/docker.sock:ro jwilder/nginx-proxy
    $ { echo 'server_tokens off;'; echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; } > /path/to/vhost.d/app.example.com

If you are using multiple hostnames for a single container (e.g. `VIRTUAL_HOST=example.com,www.example.com`), the virtual host configuration file must exist for each hostname. If you would like to use the same configuration for multiple virtual host names, you can use a symlink:

    $ { echo 'server_tokens off;'; echo 'client_max_body_size 100m;'; } > /path/to/vhost.d/www.example.com
    $ ln -s www.example.com /path/to/vhost.d/example.com
